the Google API does provide a method for
submitting history and keeping the
context of a thread but this is actually
a little bit deceiving and I would say
the API is not really ready for that
sort of thread use case basically with
the Google API you can start a chat
provide some history and then submit
additional messages but as you’ll notice
this chat object is inside of the memory
of the program that you’re running which
means that if your user’s message
arrives to another server it’s going to
have no knowledge of this chat and there
are no chat or conversation IDs so
there’s no way to attach that message to
the correct chat unless you have one
single server running and processing all
of your conversations this becomes even
more infeasible if you’re using a
serverless architecture like Cloud
functions to process all of these
messages because every time you invoke a
new Cloud function there’s absolutely no
guarantee that your code knows about all
of the chats that are ongoing I would
say that this method is really only
useful for passing history in a
structured way so if you have all of the
messages from a particular thread you
could create this history object and
start a new chat but I would basically
do that every single message you get I
would just retrieve all of the messages
and start a new chat also you’ll notice
that there is no assistant ID or or any
sort of system prompt and that is
because the Gemini API simply doesn’t
have those Concepts every single prompt
is going to contain all of the
information so if you want to make some
sort of specialized bot that’s going to
process user messages and handle them in
a certain way based on your system
instructions you’re going to have to
take your instructions and then add the
user’s message after your instructions
so that you have one string prompt this
is similar to what we used to have to do
with the open AI API maybe a year ago or
so system prompts allow you to control
the behavior of your Bot so I think
they’re a really powerful feature and I
hope we get that with the Gemini API
soon since Gemini is supposed to be
really good at coding let’s go ahead and
ask it some coding problems write
JavaScript code that answers the meaning
of life in the universe looks like it
created a random generator which is
pretty good 42 is in there of course is
the Top Choice let’s see if we can get
Gemini to help Google write a better API

for Gemini one thing I will say is that
this API is fast like it responds very
quickly compared to open AI that will be
interesting to watch as it over time all
right so it looks like it made some
pretty good assumptions about the chat
schema and here we go we got some
different end points overall this code
looks pretty good so you can copy this
over into your IDE it’s actually quite a
bit faster than open AI so I think it